Back to our schema,
we need to generate name variations.
And once we generate name variations,
we are in a good place to actually
plug that into a template.
So let me close this for space.
And as with anything,
the first thing I do is I ask myself,
how do I model the models?
So I'm starting with a basic schema and
then I'm adding in a name
variations property.
And I'm asking myself,
when I'm generating a template,
what are the most common
things that I need?
What are the most common name variations
that I need to plug it into a template and
to make it work?
And so I think of this and
I worked around this, I polished it and
I won't get hang up so much on he said
ref and refs and what does that mean,
is that typically I try to think or
arrive at a semantic or
set of semantics that is self documenting
and that feels natural to me.
So we have refs, models,
selectors and model plans.
And so all I've done is I've
defined these in an interface and
then I have two additional
ones here that are optional.
So this is what this question mark means.
And so, based on this here,
what ideally we want
to generate is something
that looks like this.
So a ref is camel case.
A model, and so this would be like
a case name, it's Pasco case selectors.
And so this is distinctly angular,
but it could be CSS, whatever.
These are kabob cases.
And then these parameters
are something a little different.
So, I think of these are just strongly
typed parameters singular and plural.
And so the challenge here is we
need to first build our base.
And then we need to add our parameters.
And so I have these two empty
functions here, buildBase and
addParams, and I have a pipe.
And then from here,
we can go ahead and trace this out.
So when we're all said and done,
we should hopefully have
something that looks like this.
So let me just double check.
We have our schema here.
And so in our base we need to return
the name variations object.
And clearly this is definitely
not a name variations object.
So, what we're gonna do is,
we're gonna go ref, and I'm gonna,
and this is just for
me preferential if I have to generate or
build an object, then I just will
type out the properties first.
And so this is even as I write code,
it's kind of horizontal.
Models selector and
selectors.
All right, so for a ref, what we need is
you'll notice here, this is camel case.
So I'm gonna go camel case.
And I'm going to go schema.model.
And for refs, same exact thing.
And I'm gonna go schema.model Plural.
And then for models you'll see here,
this is pascal case,
so I'm just gonna go
pascalcase schema.model.
And, We'll do the same thing for models.
The difference is that
I'm making this plural.
And again,
if the English language was consistent,
I may do this a little differently but
it's not.
And so pony, ponies and
even potato, potatoes.
And for selectors,
we are going to go kebab case.
And the difference is,
we're just going single model, and plural.
All right, let's save this out.
All right, and then,
let's do our add params.
So now this is taking
a named variations object and
we're going to return a new object.
So now using the spread operator,
what I can do here is just
add in the variations.
And then I'm going to add in the two,
I believe it's single
param and multi param.
So buildSingleParam,
which is gonna take in variations.
And buildMultiParam,
also going to take in variations.
And you'll notice here that,
if I can drag this over, now,
we have user course, user courses.
So, camel case, Pascal case,
kebab case and then our params.
And, I can hear it now.
Like, this is it.
What's interesting about this though,
when I think of writing a code generator,
this in my opinion is the engine.
So if code is characters,
characters become strings,
is that your ability to intelligently
manipulate strings determines or
fetch your ability to
write code generators.
And so if someone said, what does the
engine look like for your code generator?
Well, my answer would be, this right here.
Within a whopping 60 ish lines
of code, this is my generator.
Basic string manipulation.
But this produces something
that is invaluable,
which is this domain
model variations object
which I will use to hydrate my templates.
So that is, String manipulation 101.
Array.join, array.split, array.join.
And this very basic
transform pipe method which
then allows me to generate
an object like this.